in today's episode of health theory with
Karl Lenoir we discuss why you shouldn't
listen to health experts how to actually
do research for yourself the importance
of looking at evolution and why Sun sex
and sleep are the most important things
for your health everybody welcome to
health theory today's guest is Karl
Lenoir he's a radio host and podcaster
with millions of listeners and a burning
desire to educate the world on the
realities of today's food system he's a
self-proclaimed physical culturalist
and Crusader and he's hell-bent to use
his own innate curiosities to uncover
what's really going on at the cutting
edge of the Health Sciences and Karl the
part of your story that I love the most
is that this all started for you with a
bit of pain and probably a significant
dollop of fear walk us through what sent
you down this path when I was 39 years
old I was diagnosed with the kind of
unusual arrhythmia
where the left side and right side of my
heart was beating out of sync and I was
330 pounds and I was the average
American and I was eating and eating and
eating and I wasn't active I was running
a business that didn't require me to be
active I sat on a desk all day long and
I just turned into this sick human being
my ex-wife bought me the book by Deepak
Chopra ageless beauty timeless mind and
I couldn't tell you anything I read in
that book except one passage and that
was that every cell in your body turns
over anywhere from six weeks to six
months you know bone slower tissue
faster and I thought if this is true how
do I best put myself in a position for
those new cells to be healthy as opposed
to the sick ones that are in my heart
and I started to read PubMed I found
PubMed like a lot of people I thought
you know what I'm gonna read the
research and what I discovered was that
weight lifters had the greatest
remodeling effect of cardiac tissue and
I thought remodeling that's what I need
you know you remodel a house when it's
all beat up so I'm gonna remodel my
heart and so I started weightlifting
specifically and I changed my diet and
as I lost weight I got better I ended up
not needing the medications I was on
them for a short time and then my doctor
agreed to wean them off of me off of
them and I discovered that Wow like you
don't have to get sick and if you get
sick you can actually do things to fix
yourself this was a novel idea I thought
you know only doctors could do that for
you in hospitals and stuff like that
have you read the book change or die no
I haven't so the punchline of the book
change or die is that when given the
choice hey you have a heart condition
and if you don't change you're going to
die it's some absurd percentile remember
the exact percent but call it north of
80 it might be north of 90 even if all
they have to do is take one pill a day
they fail to comply and I just thought
how is that possible so what is it about
you that makes you so capable to hear
that message because not only did you
say I'm gonna change and then put in the
work and lose 100 pounds you had the
more fascinating journey of immediately
having distrust for the medical
establishment and even having to do that
work on your own so you first had to
figure out what to do right and then
actually do it so what is it in your
upbringing or just the way that you
think that made that possible for you
and I gotta tell you I think part of it
is my generation I think we baby boomers
we were part of the the the dropout you
know generation we didn't trust the man
we didn't trust organized groups that
seemed to try to apply authoritative
opinions over on us my father died of
polypharmacy he died from taking all the
medications they destroyed his liver and
his kidneys and he died me when my
doctor told me something I thought oh I
don't know if that's true
I think I want to go find out so just
that nuance that I didn't take what the
authority said to me as docile and
followed it is is is probably a hallmark
of baby boomers I also felt like
I was very depressed I didn't want it I
wasn't ready to die I wasn't willing to
accept go quietly oh this is part of
Aging I was like no it's not part of my
aging this isn't how I end my story and
so I think that those two things
combined gave me the courage to seek
other information but then I had to sort
through the information and pick what
was good and what wasn't how sort of
early in the internet was this yeah it's
that was really brand new I mean really
really brand new so like 98 Wow
so then you have an unnatural ability to
do research walk us through what what's
your process like how did you find
PubMed now it'd be easy you go and you
just drop it in a search box but back
then it wasn't that simple back then
they weren't really like websites right
there was a message board for doctors
and I lied and said I was a doctor and
then once I got in there that's when I
was able to start digging around and
asking people for research and stuff and
getting it sent to me actually emailed
to me and that started it and then
slowly but surely the internet became a
lot easier to manage and and doing
research on your own became more
possible because there were more people
actually putting their databases out
there so whenever you encounter a new
idea I'll go start with YouTube videos
and I'll just drop in the search term to
see what comes up I try to learn the
lexicon then I find the experts and then
I read in swarms meaning I read a bunch
of books from different people on one
topic what is your process look like
when it's something brand new you just
like heard something oh that's
interesting okay so the way I do things
now after 13 years of interviewing some
of the most brilliant people in in
individual spaces is I apply critical
thinking first and the first element of
my critical thinking is evolution so I
can tell you look you call this show
health theory that's brilliant and
here's why because everything going
forward is a guess right but everything
behind us isn't a guess so we don't pay
attention to 1.8 million years of the
selection pressure that mold
us into what we are today but we put all
of our faith in science du jour so the
first thing I do is I look at things and
say why would evolution have endowed us
with that we have one job and that is to
keep proliferation of the species that's
it we talk about reproductive fitness
reproductive fitness holds you together
and well until you pass the reproductive
ages then you fall apart because you
should have done your job by then so I
apply evolutionary edicts to everything
that I look at and I go does this hold
true would evolution have endowed us
with this and if I can't answer that
question without saying yeah I can see
why this would be a value to us then I
immediately discount let like for
instance right now we have a keto craze
going on from an evolutionary
perspective ketosis would have served us
only during starvation so when people
tell me oh the way to eat all the time
is keto I go absolutely not
1.8 million years have proven that but
if you don't believe it look at look at
the research being done right now on
hunter-gatherer civilizations that are
still intact now when I talk about
ketosis that's what I have from
millimole because most of us wake up in
the morning with half a mil amol of
ketones I'm talking about this absurdity
of shooting for two and three millimoles
of ketosis unless you're battling brain
cancer
all right this is actually not a good
idea because it actually shifts mRNA and
DNA to think that you're in a starvation
State if you're eating 90% fat all the
time your body thinks wow this person
sucks at finding food so we need to put
this body in like in DEFCON 4 mode
because this idiots gonna die so will it
shut down the thyroid let's do all these
things to preserve until we can get out
of this Jam we're in and proof of that
is if if if two people are into keto
husband and wife
and they're both it they're posting
their keto pictures on 1.2 millimoles if
my wife is 2.6 and they and she gets
pregnant that baby will be imprinted
with obesity genes because that baby is
being formed under the guise from an
evolutionary perspective that mom and
dad suck at finding food so we have to
make this baby so efficient that it
turns everything into fat and this has
been proven when I look at these things
I look at them from evolution I say okay
where would ketosis have really come ok
famine it would have got us through the
famine would it because we're
metabolically flexible I look at
everything that way first why is this
important
why would we be endowed with it where
did it come from and then I do my
research from there that's really really
interesting I think that's super smart
all right so you start with that
evolutionary lens I think that's
insanely powerful as a backstop of does
this make sense then what do you do the
next thing is that you cannot have an
agenda when you're reading research many
people whether they realize it or not
are coming to find something to support
their opinion and you can't have an
agenda you have to accept the good with
the bed because if you're truly in
search of the truth an agenda could skew
the way you look at things so I would
say the most powerful thing that you
could have when you're doing research of
this type is not to come with an agenda
or if you do have an agenda acknowledge
it so that you can then discount it when
you feel giddy about filing this study
all are good like let me see if I can
find the study that contradicts this and
be open to the fact that you want the
truth
you don't want to be right that's really
good that's really good yeah I totally
agree with that so once you have that
and you've got your sort of bias each X
in place you've got your critical
thinking how do you know what experts to
listen to and which to ignore and I ask
that in the context of in this arena
even on this show you'll get people that
are like key toes
amazing live there forever and then
Quito is like only four famines cycle in
cycle out so people get lost so what I
love is that you're somebody who forms
their own opinion and tells people to do
the same now I'm saying how do people
like how do they know whether to listen
to you or somebody else or somebody else
I say don't listen to me or somebody
else I say that you have to make the
decision for you
we're all very unique because of our
individual evolutionary journeys and so
where somebody can eat a food that they
thrive on maybe I can't information is
overwhelming today and people don't know
what to do and they absolutely become
numb after a while like I can't eat this
I can't eat that like what the hell can
I do I say to people go back a few
hundred years where did your people come
from what foods were indigenously
available and and enduring what seasons
and start there to build your foundation
of what you do well with but I think
that the reality is that you can't just
take anything anyone says and hit your
wagon to it you've got to you've got to
let it ruminate in your head and you've
got to think about it and you've got to
keep challenging it because there's so
much information out there today and so
much of it is wrong it's scary I mean I
fall prey to this when I'm reading
studies and I think to myself this just
doesn't sound right like I I need to dig
deeper and then I find out oh I can see
why they have this opinion people are
protecting their own little fiefdom
by you know sticking to their to their
guns when they really should change your
opinion and move forward you talked
about individuality which is something
that I'm really obsessed with so any
longtime listener of this show knows so
lisa had has digestive issues it used to
be catastrophic I think she's getting it
way in line now but we've really had to
ask not work what works for other people
but what works for Lisa it has to be an
N equals one experiment what works for
somebody doesn't necessarily work for
you and
the only way to know if it's working
fuse are you getting better the problem
is it takes a long time to get better
because by the time you've got symptoms
you could be two years down that rabbit
hole and and this is where the
pharmaceutical industry thrives because
we want we want to feel better now we
want it now like I give me something
doctor I don't like the way I feel well
you may need to be patient and do one
thing for two or three weeks and see if
that's working and quite frankly if it
gets worse feel good because you're on
the right path you're just going the
wrong way that's I like that so so if
you get something that makes you sicker
go oh man like if I eat a lot of fiber I
wake up in the morning with brain fog
really yeah because because fiber is
supposed to be fermented in the large
intestine right yeah if the fiber is is
being fermented in the small intestine
then you're getting bloated after a meal
because it's fermenting here and not
down there you're not farting it out
you're burping it back on right that's
the first sign that you've got microbes
and and stuff inside your small
intestine when you start to see these
foods making you feel that way it's time
for you to say stop my mother used to
say if you're lost don't run because you
could be running in the wrong direction
it's good advice so when you feel like I
don't understand but why it when I eat
pizza I just get so bloated okay first
thing don't eat pizza now what else
makes you bloated get those things out
of your diet if you're one of these
people has a distended stomach you belch
all the time you wake up you haven't
eaten in 12 hours you're burping in the
morning you have small intestinal
bacterial overgrowth in fact I predict
that 76% of the population has SIBO
today that is very specific yeah why 76
76 percent of the people in the United
States claim that they have a gut
problem they're bloated that gassy
certain foods don't agree with them most
of the time it's starches and sugars and
and digestion we just resistant starches
that don't agree with them because
they're being metabolized in the small
intestine where they shouldn't be now I
want to go back
really thinking about that number that's
terrifying that 76% report having gut
issues that's pure insanity so okay the
solution there is you may need a very
specific antibiotic but it's only it's
always going to be diet it's always
gonna be all right well then what cuz
I'm so terrified of antibiotics I will
tell you because I think that's almost
certainly what caused Lisa's problem so
walk me through non-antibiotic things to
try from a supplement standpoint great
fruit seed extract there's a free fatty
acid and I'm gonna get the name wrong
but it's thoughts with the you it's like
it's like you cyclic acid they they
permeate the microbes cell wall they
make it burst the other thing is like
coconut oil I know everybody's like Oh
coconut I'm not saying pound it down but
on an empty stomach first thing in the
morning a teaspoon full of coconut oil
because coconut oil helps to destroy
those microbes the reason the small
intestine becomes inhabited in the first
place is because the acid level in your
stomach is becoming too neutral you need
to drop the pH to make it more acidic
because if the acidity in the small
intestine was appropriate they would
never live there they have they would
only live when they got to the large
intestine so clearly you have an issue
with your small intestine and the
acidity level so by you know a lot of
people will say I got better when I
started taking apple cider vinegar three
times yeah because that apple cider
vinegar is washing down into the small
intestine 8 it's killing that bacteria
that shouldn't be there in the first
place and so those kind of things work
very well
diet works really well starve them
starve them if they what they want
starches don't eat starches now I'm not
saying B can o eat vegetables be
sensibly broccoli eat spinach
you know don't eat ninety percent fat
and say oh that's working yeah it'll
work but you have it you're gonna have
other problems but but just stay away
from the pasta and the pizza and the
bread and the white potatoes and really
even yams just stay away from
arches for a while a good six months and
you'll find out your stomach is less
distended if you look at the number of
people today that stomachs pop out
underneath their chest and tuck back in
at their pelvis you think yourself what
is it it's gas it's the small intestine
has become a fermenting Factory and
you're loaded with gas and when you have
gas constantly it's pushing up against
the esophageal sphincter and finally it
breaches it and it blows some stomach
acid up some stomach acid up some
stomach acid up and these people
inevitably are always better belching
and burping and they're always bloated
and they got distended stomachs if we
can get that under control they get
better and let's remember something this
is the immune system this what do you
mean this the gosh right it is the
immune system I mean we now know that
that Parkinson's disease starts in the
stomach we now know that that
intraocular pressure glaucoma starts in
the stomach it's an autoimmune disease
everybody's got autoimmune diseases
today we can all agree that inflammation
is the root of all disease today right
we've been saying that for what a decade
now well inflammation is what the immune
system does that's how it mounts an
attack on something that's how but
there's a foreign something in your body
it sends out macrophages it sends out
inflammatory responses to go in and to
destroy that and kill it if you workout
that's your immune system making you
recover you have inflammation and it
goes that it resolves the inflammation
that well that's all coming from here
when when when your gut is bad your body
is bad and you you were more prone to
developing a widespread group of
diseases so what do you know about fecal
transplant my mother had one when she
was in the really oh my god tell me why
I asked for it so my mother got a real
bad case of c-diff whoa and she had
really bad diarrhea and she was like
they were saying like we can't keep her
hydrated she's gonna die and my niece
Kelly because if it's best if it's from
a family member sir
when and donated a little poop and they
they inserted it in my mom and she lived
she got better that's insane
now I need to know how much she got
better like what are we talking here
like slightly with 80s and she was like
on death's door and she didn't die for
another four or five years I think it
was wow that's uh that's really
incredible what I find really
distressing about gut issues is how hard
it is to rebalance and so I was you know
to your point about just sort of
processor at a critical thinking level
I was thinking through ok why would that
be so that it's really hard to just take
a probiotic and hope that it you know
rebalances but I'm guessing this is how
somebody tried a fecal transplant the
first time obliterate through
antibiotics so that you're starting from
scratch yes and then repopulate cuz I
was I literally had the thought could I
be read like vaginally swab like if
you're so a child is born with no immune
system it gets it through the vaginal
birth and that they swallow it and it
gets crazy and then I thought but that
you can't do that as an adult so why and
then that led me down that I've ever
known I've had exactly that same train
of thought you know I've asked
scientists that I've interviewed like I
kill my lawn and reseed why can't I do
that with my gut and they all agree you
can but the problem is that the vast
number of microbes you've picked up in
your life can't be replaced by something
in a capsule our gut is kind of like the
universe like we know where the planets
are right but we really don't know
everything about the universe there is
to know every day they're discovering
new microbes that inhabit our gut and
the things that they impart upon us so
you'd have you'd have a very monolithic
microbiome if you had to use what we
have available to us but you're
absolutely right the reality is that you
if you if you kind of take a
scorched-earth approach and kill
everything you could receive then but
you'd have to have everything right in
the receiving and we just don't know
enough about it yet
this also sounds like a pretty dangerous
process to do the obliteration first all
right on a totally different topic talk
to me about your routines I know the
you use a lot of supplementation you're
very vocal about the things that you've
used or tried what are some things that
are just an absolute standard part of
your day I have the 3 s's the most
important evolutionary edicts that if
you practice these regularly you will
live a long healthy life and there the 3
s's Sun sex and sleep okay the Sun will
make you want to have more sex the Sun
will improve the quality of your sleep
if you'll get out there getting Sun all
day long if you do those three things
regularly you will live longer you won't
get prostate cancer there's evidence
that women who have sex more often and
their partner actually ejaculates in
them don't get fibroids they don't get
uterine cancer I mean guys who have more
more orgasms are protected against
prostate cancer i when you when you do
the things that evolution put you here
to do which is be in the Sun have sex
and sleep well you that that's 90
percent of the job right there I use
Milano 10 to 25 micrograms a day because
the what we attribute the Sun to doing
for us is vitamin D vitamin D vitamin D
so they get that because of
epidemiological studies show that people
who live closer to the equator don't get
heart disease they don't get this they
don't get cancer don't get it so we just
say oh it's it's the Sun it's vitamin D
but a lot of research has led us down
it's like vitamin D doesn't play out
when you supplement it it doesn't seem
to confer those same benefits well the
most overlooked thing about your skin is
something called the Milano Courtin
system it produces five different
hormones and every cell in your body has
a Milano Courtin receptor on it and the
Milano Courtin system is responsible for
libido that's a big one because anything
that improves libido you're getting
healthier because that's that's
evolutionary edict number one have lots
of sex and lots of children before you
die and the really the rest of it is
diet and sleep it really is I do
everything I can to protect and improve
the quality of my sleep
and I'm I'm almost militant about my
diet but I come to the conclusion that
in order to be healthy today you almost
have to be militant about it because
there's so many people pulling on you oh
come on come on you can have pizza come
on you can go out and have a few drinks
come on and I almost think that they
want me to do it not because they think
I'm missing out but then it kind of
makes them feel less guilty for what
they're dead of course you know so
alright let's go deep into those the 3
s's that's really strong so how much Sun
are you getting I lay in the Sun as
often as possible sometimes just for 20
or 30 minutes when we we talk about Sun
everybody thinks it's a it's got to be
like Tahiti weather no the Sun coming
through the clouds confers a benefit and
I always get out there and take my shirt
off I just make sure that I get that
light on me and then of course I use
Milano 10 to to fill in for when the Sun
isn't there for months at a time ok so
how do you protect your sleep well first
of all in order to manage it you have to
measure it get some sort of a nap I'll
use a product called sleep cycle and if
you use it with like a Fitbit you can
actually see how low your heart Ramin my
hope my heart rate goes down to 40 beats
per minute and in deep slump I mean that
when I the first time I saw that I was
shocked and so once you get one of these
sleep apps and you see how you're
sleeping then you can start to do things
that improve sleep I'm a big believer in
any type of blue blocking glasses late
at night usually about 7 p.m. don't eat
three hours before bedtime that's a big
one dr. Dale bredesen who just did some
groundbreaking studies here at UCLA and
which led to the book the end of
Alzheimer's he is responsible for
telling people who have Alzheimer's
disease to have three hour window
between their last meal and when they go
to bed and that helped a lot resolving
brain inflammation yeah yes do you know
the mechanism behind that
yeah autarky explain for people what oh
- oh geez okay well so so let me let me
back up if your body is playing host to
digesting food mmm the factory is open
you're not sleeping well it's busy it's
doing things right if the food is past
the initial digestive phases and moving
into the small intestine and soon the
large intestine which is what happens
within that three hour window right your
body is now on coasts it's not working
as hard you could get into deep sleep in
fact if I have a meal late at night for
whatever reason you know I'm being
sociable and I go to sleep an hour and a
half I don't get it to the deep sleep
that I normally do and you see that as
you're tracking it in fact my heart rate
never goes down into the 40s it stays up
high all my pals really interesting well
this leads to the heart attacks you know
all the people who are not in good shape
they have big meals they go to bed they
die in their sleep because your heart
needs that rest at night it needs to
like slow the hell down and if you have
food the factory is open the heart is
moving stuff around it can't slow down
so the other thing is that the cellular
waste management system is otology and
this is when organelles go around the
cells and clean up metabolic debris and
turn them into things that can be you
know carried out of the body tonfa G
shuts off when your body's digesting
food or kapha G is ramped up when you're
fasting it's like they did a study that
showed that during fasting the autopsy
and the brain stuff to clean up the
plaque that accumulates in some of these
neurological disorders Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's so that doesn't happen if
you're eating before bed another secret
that I found is as you get older blood
sugar management seems to become more of
a challenge for the body if you're one
of these people who wakes up at 2:00
a.m. in the morning all the time 99% of
the time if you had a glucometer and
check your blood you'd find out that you
just went into a hypoglycemic state the
blood dropped really low the brain goes
oh [__]
I I need sugar and so what the brain
does is it wakes up the adrenal said hey
get me you know and you have to wake up
for the adrenals to do their job so if
you one of these people who wakes up at
2:00 or 3:00 in the morning all the time
3 to 5 grams of an amino acid called
light a glycine GL Y CIN a if you take
glycine right before bed you'll sleep
all night
why because glycine is a glue code genic
amino acid it can convert to glucose
through gluconeogenesis but it doesn't
do it quickly it won't kick you out of
ketosis if you're one of these people
who wants to stay in ketosis it'll only
do it on demand and it'll only raise
blood sugar enough to keep you sleeping
it won't send you into a spike like you
just had a meal if you take 3 to 5 grams
of glycine before bed you'll sleep all
night you'll go oh my god I can't
believe it that was the answer who's
because you're going into hypoglycemia
at night and obviously if you snore I
don't care if you have obstructive sleep
apnea or not snoring is not normal okay
if you're breathing through your mouth
at night that's not good okay good there
there is there are nerve bundles in your
nostrils that go right to the brain to
give it immediate information like oh
we're not getting enough air what to do
if you're breathing through your mouth
you bypass that entirely the brain
really has no real knowledge of how much
nitric oxide is coming in or blood but
managing oxygen and carbon dioxide if
you're not breathing through your nose
you won't get into deep sleep so I'm a
huge proponent of taping your mouth shut
if you or somebody who your partner says
you snore but it's not bad and you don't
have a deviated septum or something to
worry about like you're gonna smother if
you tape your mouth shut or you are a
full-blown snorer start taping your
mouth shut
just get surgical tape put a couple
strip you got to shave because it won't
stick otherwise put a couple of strips
across your mouth and try sleeping
you'll find out that once you get past
the fear of sleeping with your mouth
taped you sleep so much deeper think
about it babies right young kids they
fall asleep on picket fences right as we
get older it's like sleep becomes more
elusive it's like man I just wish I
could get a good night's sleep I wish I
could wake up and feel good in the
morning so sleep is a big big big one
yeah I love that you posted on your
instagram something that stopped me dead
in my tracks I loved it so much and it
was I just turned 60 the best is in
front of me what do you mean by that
I'm so much wiser now like even when I
look at the show and the way I approach
the show and the things that I've
learned but also I'm a lot more willing
I'm a lot more willing to be vulnerable
now you know I grew up in an environment
where vulnerability was equated to
weakness we used to have a saying oh he
took kindness for weakness you did
something nice for somebody and then
they were gonna try to screw you because
they thought that you were easy to screw
and so I grew up in an environment where
you you weren't kind to people and
people respected fear watching my father
passed away that was a game changer for
me I know no man who recognizes his own
mortality until his father passes away
it just doesn't work otherwise I watched
my father in that bed and I saw myself I
thought holy [__] that's gonna be me I'm
not ready for that and that opened up my
ability to be more vulnerable because I
felt like you know what I just don't
want to be that guy anymore I don't want
to be hard I don't want to be angry I
want to be more forgiving I want to be
more loving I'm a firm believer that you
cannot live until you have addressed
your own death I'm a huge believer of
that right we're all on this cook we're
all in this car ride right we're
starting on the East Coast we're heading
to the west coast we don't want to talk
about the fact that we're gonna be in
California eventually we're driving and
driving it's like hey where we going ha
ha I don't want to talk about that
that's how we treat death like we're all
gonna die why not make peace with it and
all of a sudden you look at the things
that you must do in your life and the
rest of the stuff is just minutia and I
think that I've recognized my own death
I realize I'm gonna die I don't want to
die soon I have longevity in my genes
but I've actually sat and imagined so
what am I gonna do when I'm on that bed
and I know this is it and I call it snow
day when I die I want it to be like snow
day when I had young kids and it snowed
nobody expected me to go to work but
expect me to take the kids to school
know
it's snow day we're gonna stay home
we're gonna eat pizza we're gonna watch
television gonna have fun because nobody
expects me to do anything that's how you
should feel about your life when you're
ready to die you shouldn't feel like I
need more time
I didn't do this I didn't do that and
the only way that you can figure that
[__] out is to sit down and think about
what's it gonna feel like when I'm dying
like when I this is it time is out I
there's nothing else that I can do what
am I gonna feel like and then all of a
sudden it crystallizes the really
important things that are in your life
and you can be more focused on those
things I absolutely love that that was
amazing before I asked my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
online superhuman radio dotnet
superhuman radio dotnet we have great
articles and shows I do four shows a
week it's a lot so no problem all right
what if people could change one thing
what would you have them change for the
biggest impact on their health
you know that really is a tie it is diet
and it's sleep it's those two things
that that's the wheelhouse for optimal
health it really is I mean when it comes
down to health the things that either
erode health or support it is what you
put in your mouth and how well you sleep
that's really it you should eat a diet
that's appropriate for the human
condition that's that's not something
that's subject to to deviate from now
you can live a long time and eat crap
food yeah sure but your life is your
health span is it gonna match your life
span but I would say I would say for
sure diet and sleep but n sex sex is
really big I know it sounds corny but
it's the evolutionary edict it's the one
reason you're on this planet and the
more you do it the more your body will
reward you the 3 s's there you go Sun
sex and sleep works for me Carl thank
you so much for coming thanks for having
me man I was a pleasure guys I've known
this man for years
and I'm telling you he is a wealth of
information but the thing that I want
you to pay most close attention to is
the way that he doesn't just take
information at face value he wants to
understand it and I'd love I was not
actually expecting the answer he gave me
when I was asking about research but it
really tells you who he is and that is
to start with that backstop of just
critical thinking of understanding the
process by which you're going to think
through this so that you can identify
what works and what doesn't what's real
that you can begin to understand who's
an authority you should pay attention to
and who's somebody that you should
ignore and taking ownership of your own
health and going out and exploring being
inquisitive having fun with it I think
that is one of the most like amazing
things you're gonna take away from his
content his radio show is absolutely
incredible
he brings on a wide swath of the world
to talk about a wide range of topics all
related to all of the things around
physical culture it's an amazing show
that has been around longer than just
about anybody else I think 13 years it's
absolutely insane and you can imagine
how good you get at something after
doing it for the
ten years it's really really
extraordinary trust me if you dive in
his world you would be richly rewarded
rewarded all right if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care thank you guys so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're gonna get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential